
Hello everyone and welcome to the Power BI co create video series. My name is Christian and I will guide you through this in the next couple of videos to show you some introduction to the Power BI Desktop world. Due to the fact that this is a co creator video, you probably need two screens. One where you run this video ad and one where you run Power BI Desktop. This makes it way easier for you to actually do the things we do in the video right beneath watching the video.

Today we're gonna work with the world indicators dataset. You already know this dataset because you pre processed it in Power Query. And this dataset is pretty important for our employer, the firm AdventureWorks, because AdventureWorks right now has the question in mind where to expand to. And this question can easily be solved or you can get some insights for this question, by analyzing the dataset for world indicators. So this is the task we have today.

But before we're actually starting with our work, we're gonna have a look at the Power BI Desktop, how to work with it, and how the user interface actually looks like. If you open up Power BI Desktop for the first time, you get this screen. Right here in the middle, you see this little sign in part. You don't actually have to care about it. You don't have to sign in right now.

So we're gonna leave this beside. On the right hand side, you see these four lines here. The first one is the 'What's new?' part. The second one is the Power BI blog, the forums and the tutorials. The tutorials can give you a little bit of an extra insight about what you can actually do with Power BI, where to click and how everything functions.

The forums are really important for you, because a lot of problems that you have to tackle too, if you work with Power BI, actually have been solved before. So if you have any problem, just go to the forums, search for the problem that you have, and you probably find a solution because someone already had that problem. Right here on the left hand side, you see those three parts. The Get Data, the Recent Sources, and Open Other Reports. Right now we just need the Get Data button.

So just click it. If you click it, this Get Data pop up window appears. Right here you can see what kind of data Power BI can actually work with. That's a pretty long list. So there's the classical Excel file, CSV file.

It also can work with PDFs. It can work with SQL Servers. You can put in some cloud SQL Servers and everything. A lot of different resources you can get. But right now we just need an Excel file.

So click Excel and connect. This classical Windows pop up appears and you can search for the World Indicators dataset. I have it in my Documents PowerBI folder. You just click it and open it. Now Power BI connects to the dataset and we get this pop up window, which is the navigator window.

In this navigator window you see your dataset, the word indicators xlsx, with all the four different data sheets that are in it. Just classically, like you know it from Excel, you have four different sheets and one Excel file. In our case, we just need this world indicator sheet. So we just click it and we get this preview right here. In this preview you can have a crisp and short look on your data.

And if you are 100% sure that everything is correct with your data, you can just click load. But in most of the cases you won't be sure about how correct your data is. So you go to Transform Data. If you click Transform Data, this Power Query Editor window opens up right in Power BI. Now you can have a real precise look at your data, all of the columns of your data, and all of the rows.

Especially right here, there are a couple of things that are important. These little logos right next to your column name, here the ABC with countries, the 123 with year, the 1.2 with export they show you how Power Query in Power BI interprets the data. ABC means it is interpreted as text, which fits the data. If you have a look at year, you see this one two three icon, which means the interpretation is a whole number. In our case, this is okay.

We can work with it. But, actually, most of the time, we want to change it to, like, date or something. If we have a look at export, you see that there's this 1.2 icon, which actually means it is a decimal number. This is totally correct to our data, but with decimal numbers you have to be a little bit careful. Especially if you live in Germany or have datasets from, for example, Germany or some other countries where the decimal separator is not a dot, but usually a comma.

Sometimes you get some problems with that. To solve this problem, you can easily click this icon and go to using locale. If you click using locale, you get another pop up window that opens up. And you can choose the data type first, which in our case isn't a text with decimal number, and then choose the locale. In our case, it is a German locale.

So you search for here it is, German and Germany, and you get some sample input values, how actually in Germany this would be written. And if you check if we just have a look at the English one and we go to English, let's say United States, you get an example for that. And you see that the decimal separator actually here is a dot and not a comma. So be aware of this. Maybe in some of your datasets this is different.

Maybe even in one dataset you have some differences. Be careful about that. In our dataset, this was interpreted the right way, so you can just cancel it. So if you're sure that all of your data is correct how it is and actually in this case it is you can just click close and apply. If you click close and apply there's a pending change in your query and it works a little bit.

Now it loads it. And here we go. Now the data is loaded into Power BI. You can see that in the field column. Now you have the world indicators dataset right here in it with different columns or how we call it variables.

Right next to it you have the visualizations column and you can see that there are a lot of different visualizations you can choose from. And here you will see later we make all the adjustments. Right next to it you have the filter pane. In this filter pane there are a lot of different filters you can adjust and add on the page, on all the pages in a single visualization. We'll go to that further in another video.

Also here at the top, just like in all the other Microsoft products, you can find the ribbon bar. You have a menu of Home, View, Modeling and Help. Everything of this with its own ribbon bar. You also have the 'Pages' pane down here. We can add pages if you click the plus.

You can delete pages if you click this little x on the top right, or you can, if you right click on it, duplicate and rename pages. But for us right now we just need one page, because we want to do our first actual visualization. The easiest way to do a visualization in Power BI is by going to the Fields column and just clicking the white box right next to the variable you want to use. In our case, you just click on Countries. What Power BI now does is automatically creating a map, because we click Countries and Countries is interpreted as a variable that has some geographic information in it.

I'm just gonna make this a little bit bigger for you, so you can see what we have. You can also just move around in this map. You can zoom in and zoom out. And if you have right now a map with bullet points in it, and you can hover over those bullet points, and you see countries Canada, which is the only information right now in it. So maybe we want to have some more information on this.

To make that, click on countries and drag it to legend to see what happens. What happens right now is that we also right now have this legend at the top of our map and that every bullet point that we have right here, every point, is colored in a different color. That is also indicated right here at the top in this legend. But this kind of visualization, this kind of map is not the one we want right now. So you just go to this visualization pane right here and just have a little look at what we can do here.

There are a lot of different visualizations we can choose from. And what we will do is use this filled map icon. Just click on it and you see what happens. Power BI now not uses those little points to indicate countries, but fills the map with respect to the borders of the countries. And if we now take the countries again and drag it into the legend, you see that every country is filled in a different color that is indicated in the legend.

So right now, we can easily distinguish France from Germany, Germany from The Netherlands, and Belgium, and so forth. This is pretty nice, but, actually, we don't have a lot of information right now. So you prop we probably need some more information. So let's make this a little bit bigger to see what we actually have right here. And let's drag GDP to tooltips.

Nothing changes right now in the visualization, on the first look at least. But let's have a closer look at Europe and hover over France. And now you see that in this hover over, you get some information about the GDP in million, which is 7,700,000.0 US dollars, which actually seems pretty much. Maybe this occurs if we go here to the tooltips and click this little arrow. It sums up the GDP, which means we have an average GDP per year for every year in our dataset that is summed up.

So we have the summation of, I don't know, three to four years of GDP for every country, which actually doesn't make sense. So we just take the average, which means that the tooltip, when we hover over it, shows us the average yearly GDP of this country in our dataset, which actually makes way more sense right now. If you want to adjust this visualization a little bit, you always have in the visualization pane not only this fields pane, but also this format pane. Right here, you can click the legend off and on. You can change the data colors.

But, actually, one information to this, you really have to be careful about the color scheme because the color scheme that is naturally and automatically chosen by Power BI is well handled and pretty good. So no color pops out, every color is distinguishable and everything. And if you change something, maybe you change something in a way that two countries are not really good distinguishable just by the color. So you should be careful about changing colors and color schemes. But you also have some map controls.

You have some zoom buttons you can adjust. You can zoom with the plus and minus button and not only with your mouse wheel or with the two finger panning. Turn them off again. We don't need them right now. You can choose auto zoom on and off.

Nothing really happens right now, but auto zoom is especially important if you have some filtering, which we'll show you later. You can see you can have different kind of map styles, which are not always the best depending on what. But right here, you have an aerial map, which also shows you forests and mountains and everything. You can have grayscale map style, a lot of things to choose from. You can add in a title.

Right now, the title is average of GDP in million US flows by countries and countries. And you see that here is the first problem. We have countries twice in it. This is because we dragged countries in the legend pane. I can show you this once to have it in location, which indicates the location in the map, and also in the legend to give us an extra legend.

But this leads to this little let's call it failure in Power BI, that it counts countries twice. So we just delete the end country in the end, click enter, and our title is correct now. You can adjust some background, You can have some general stuff, like adjusting the position in a more generic way. You can add some borders. And you can have a closer look at what tooltip actually does.

You can have a report page. You can have some label colors, some text sizes, and some background colors. And you can make it transparent even. So if we make it a little bit transparent, and we hover over it, you see that it is not really good readable right now, but you see the other countries next to it. So maybe in some cases, it might be sensible to do it in our case.

I don't think so. So there are a lot of different opportunities and possibilities to adjust your visualization right here. And I think that our first visualization is good enough, so I'll make it a little bit smaller to have some more space on the canvas. So we're gonna do our second visualization now. So just click on the white canvas.

And now let's have a close look at the GDP and the population. So you just click GDP. What Power BI now does is making the first automated visualization, which is the summed up GDP of everything in our dataset. But we're more interested in GDP and population, so we click population. What Power BI now does is making one visualization with the two variables in it and one scale.

This actually isn't the thing that we want right now, so we need to change something maybe. So let's change this and make it a so called scatter plot or scatter chart. This is this little button here at the visualizations pane. We just click it. And what we see now is that we have this visualization that contains the population on the y axis and the GDP in million US dollars on the x axis with two different scalings.

And this one single point here gives the summed up information of our dataset, which is actually a GDP of 90,000,000 million US dollars and a population of 1,900 millions people living here. So this is a nonsense visualization right now. So let's have a closer look what we can actually do. The first thing is that we change the GDP from sum to average. This is the thing that we also did in this visualization, which is needed, that we don't sum up over the years.

We're gonna do the same thing with the population, because we don't want to sum up the population through the years. We want to have an average of the population of each country over over the years. So now we have something different here. We have, like, 65,000,000 people in the average. That is the average of every country that we have in our dataset.

And the average of a single country in a single year of the GDP is pretty high, actually. So we're just gonna take countries and drag it to legend. So what we have now is just like up here on our map, we have the countries as legend. And for each country, we have one single point in our scatter plot. So one thing I'm gonna show you now that you can do in Power BI Desktop, which helps you adjusting visualizations like this, is this little button up here.

This is the so called focus mode. If you click this, the visualization that you're working on right now just becomes big and you can have a closer look at the data. So what we have now is we have dataset where we have every single country as a point in it. And with every single country, we have the average GDP in million US dollars in an average year we have in our data set and an average population in millions of people, which is the average of the year. So we right here, we have The United States with an average of 360,000,000 people living there and a GDP of 16,000,000, which is a million US dollars, so pretty high.

If we go down here and have a look at Germany, we have an average of 80,000,000 people living here and an average of 3,600,000.0 million US dollars. So if you're happy with this visualization, which I actually am right now, I can just click back to report, and I'm back with this little visualization. What we're gonna do now is just delete this visualization again. You just click on the visualization and click the delete button, or you just go to this three points and more options and remove it. I'm gonna do this because I wanna show you some different kind of visualization technique.

Instead of clicking the visualization, you can also just go to the population and drag it into values. And you can go to GDP and drag it into values. And now just click on scatter plot. As soon as you do this, you get to the same visualizations. Now you just have to take the countries and drag them to the axis, and here we are.

I'm gonna delete it again, because there is another way of making the visualization. Just click the white canvas, click on 'scatter plot' and Power BI creates an empty scatter plot. You just see this all grayed out. But now right here in the field pane you see that there are all these empty fields you can fill in. And now you can just take the countries, drag them to legend, take the GDP, drag them to the x axis, and get the population, drag them to the y axis.

You have the same visualization right now. So this is the probably three different ways you can make a visualization like this. And now you can just get this visualization, drag it around on your canvas if you want to adjust the size and position of your visualization. So we're gonna make this a little bit bigger. Gonna make the map a little bit bigger, so that we have some more space where we can see some stuff.

But this is not as exciting as it could be, so let's change a little bit. We also have, in the world indicator dataset, the year values. So let's just click year and drag it to the play axis. This is a pretty nice tool that we have in Power BI because what we have right now is this little play button and play axis down here. As you can maybe see, up here you have the year.

If you click play, the little points which indicate the countries move on your scatter plot. In this dataset, we only have three years, but just imagine if you have, like, ten or twenty or even more years in your dataset. Or we don't talk about years. Maybe we talk about months or days or anything. And you use this in a scatterplot, you can really have some nice video kind of visualizations that you can make where you can really get some insights.

And even more, if you go to 02/2012 and just click maybe Germany, like you can see right now, one of the main benefits from a tool like Power BI. If I click Germany here in this visualization, this visualization automatically adjusts. Also, if I click America on the map, this visualization also adjusts and filters only to The United States. This is actually one of the major tools from Power BI and visualization tools like Power BI. So maybe we just want to know something about Switzerland.

If I click Switzerland on the map, I only have Switzerland right here on the scatter plot. And if I click it and click play, I see how it moves. And if I click America and click play, I see how America moves in my scatter plot. So this is pretty nice feature, I think. And if we're also in this scatter plot visualization and we go to the format pane, you see there are a lot of different things that you can actually adjust the specialization from.

But what we want to adjust right now is this problem with America. America is just hidden underneath the date, and I don't think that's appropriate. So we have to change something here. So the easiest way is just by adjusting the axis. So we just click on the y axis, and we have the start and end boxes where we can fill them in.

So the start should be at zero and the end right now at the end is probably around three hundred. Let's make it to five hundred. Now Power BI automatically adjusts this and we see that The United States is not underneath our data anymore. So job done. Click the play again.

And you can see the line that indicates the development of The United States Of America over the three time points that we have. Maybe now we not only want to have the names right here at the legend, but maybe we also want the single points to be named. So that's pretty easy. Just go to the visualizations pane, go to format, and right here on the category labels, you can turn them on. And now you have every single country name right next to the point of it, which is way easier to identify which country lies where and where it moves to.

So we have two nice visualizations yet. Maybe let's make another one. We have a lot of variables that we haven't even worked with yet. So let's think about what we can do. We have this variable here that is called the Global Innovation Index.

The Global Innovation Index actually gives us an idea of how innovative a country is. Like all the other variables, we have this variable for every year and every country. So we could visualize the development of a country or of the country's innovative power over the years. So let's do this. To make that visualization, we first have to think about what kind of visualization we need to show a development over time.

So let's click the white canvas and have a look at the different visualizations that are available. In my opinion, a pretty good visualization to show the development over time is a line chart. So let's click the line chart. Power BI automatically creates this empty line chart and we can play around with it. So let's take the Global Innovation Index and drag it to values.

As you can see now that we have this one single value in it and that's not really what we want. So we take the countries, put the legend, just like in the other visualizations. And as always, Power BI now sums up the Global Innovation Index score for every of those years and puts it in in this one chart altogether. So that's not what we want. So let's have a closer look and get the year to the axis.

And what we now have is a pretty nice visualization. Let's make big in the focus mode to get some better insight from it. What we have is every country in our dataset and the development over the years 02/1213, and '14 of the Global Innovation Index score, which scores from one to 100. So we have countries like Switzerland, which starts pretty high at 68.2 and declines over time to 64.78. And we have countries like United Kingdom, which starts at pretty low at 61 and increases its value over time to 62.

So we have all those different values and and different slopes that are visualized, but we have a y axis that actually starts at something like 40 down here. We probably don't want that. So that's formatted. In the format pane, go to y axis and just start at zero. What this helps us is seeing that every country that we have nowadays that actually starts pretty high.

So we don't have a country in it that is totally uninnovative. But, also, this kind of visualisation is even more correct than the one we started before. We're gonna change this again to auto, to have it this way. What we also can do is changing the colors. Like I already said before, you should be careful about it.

Put on some labels to see exactly where each country lies at. We can change the shapes, which is especially important if we want to increase the width of those strokes, which might be pretty good in our case. And we can change it from dash, dotted, solid, and everything. We're gonna leave this way and go back to the report. Now we have three pretty good visualizations that give us an insight about the development of the GDP with respect to the population in each country, the development of each country's innovative power and we can easily filter everything by just clicking on the map.

Before we do the last visualization, we can change one thing. If you think about maps especially, the legend from maps usually isn't at the top of a map, but more on the right hand side of the map. So we can also change that by going to visualizations, going to the format pane, clicking on legend, and saying that the position shouldn't be at the top, but more on the right side of it. And we're gonna change that for the other visualizations too to have a kind of a sleek and compelling look to it. Here we go.

So we have three visualizations, every legend on the right hand side, and it's all filterable. So there's enough space for one last visualization. This visualization has to be done by you. I'm just gonna show you in one second how this visualization should look in the end. And the way to that is up to you.

And here it is. As you see, what you should visualize now is the average of the GDP by countries in a declining form with the data labels. This is the last visualization that we need to get this dashboard that informs us about possible countries where adventure works can expand to. So take your time, pause the video now, and create this. Video.

I hope you were successful. Now let's get to another thing. Let's get to the point of organizing your visualizations on your page. For this, you can go to the View tab right here. You can show the grid lines and you see these little grid lines here.

You can also snap objects to the grid and then if you move the object it snaps to those little grid lines which is pretty practical, actually. For our case, I just deselect those two because I want to show you something else. If we select two or more visualizations, and at the top, select format, align, and then we can align them in the middle. Because don't choose those two and align them at center. And you see that those two, again, align in the center.

You should align all of your four visualizations now for the last step in this video. Thank you very much for watching, and I hope you have learned a lot from this video. See you next time for the next Power BI video.
